# Setting up an environment

## Installing the toolset

Before we start building our CosmWasm smart contract, we need to set up an
environment. The first thing you need is `cargo`, the Rust compiler. You can
find its installation instructions on https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install.

Additionally, you need a wasm target for cargo, which you can install with
`rustup target add wasm32-unknown-unknown`. It would allow you to cross-compile
Rust code to wasm bytecode instead of native, which we need for our smart
contracts.

When your Rust is set up, you should install the `cosmwasm-check` utility. It
is a tool verifying if the wasm binary is a valid CosmWasm smart contract ready
to upload to the chain. We want all contracts we build to be valid, so
`cosmwasm-check` would be very useful. You can install it using `cargo`,
executing `cargo install cosmwasm-check` in your terminal.

## Verifying installation

Now it is time to verify the installation. Start with getting some ready-to-use
smart contracts. You can find good examples in
[`cw-plus`](https://github.com/CosmWasm/cw-plus) repository. Check it out with
`git checkout git@github.com:CosmWasm/cw-plus.git`. Go to the
`cw-plus/contracts/cw1-whitelist` directory, which contains a simple grouping
smart contract. You should be able to build it with `cargo wasm` command. If
build passes, your Rust is set up correctly.

Now go back to the root repository directory (the `cw-plus`), and look for your
build artifacts - they would be in `target` directory, and would have `.wasm`
extension. You can list all of them with `find ./target -name "*.wasm"`. There
should be a `./target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/cw1_whitelist.wasm` file.
Execute `cosmwasm-check ./target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/cw1_whitelist.wasm`.
If the contract check passes, you are ready for the next lesson - creating an
empty but valid CosmWasm contract.

